Now we come to the last part of our corrupt operations and that is to the.
And it's delete to delete an entity to delete data from your repository from your database.
You have basically two options.
The first option is to use the building JPA repository delete method.
And let's take a look at that now.
JPA has the delete option with various alternatives.
You can iterate through products and delete one by one and you can simply send a product and delete
it.
You can give it an ID and delete that way or you can delete all and delete all in batch.
And this is a completely different way to delete it.
You can you can batch process your data and delete them all one by one.
And also you can use the batch delete process would then iterator with the product object.
All right the delete method that we're going to focus in this tutorial as the lead product method.
So the delete product method is accepting either an iterable or a product or ID.
But in our case we're going to send it a simple product the product entity product object.
So I want to do it the current product.
So let me just say poetry and I want to delete it.
All right.
That's basically it.
So let's run our query in our database and to do that.
I'm going to rerun our application
our applications starting up now.
And as you can see we have a delete statement right here.
The Hibernate to verify that if the product is actual delete it.
Let's go back to our database to console and to do that.
I'm going to open up Firefox again and let's just refresh our session with the database and reconnect
Amico to our database and run our query.
Now we have just two products in our database to turn 1 to 1 dad.
With the price of 19 and the type of specific is not in this list in not it's not in our database.
So we basically delete it.
That's all you need to do about deleting with the actual JPA repository delete method.
This is the very basic way of dealing with the JPA.
So let's take out other alternatives we how we put a repository deletion to delete by a specific method
or a specific query depending on your knees.
All you have to do is to provide a name method for your delete but deleting that way can be costly and
problematic because the delete method you're getting rid of the entity getting rid of the data in your
database so you can't get it back in anyway.
You have to rollback or provide some other method so that you can get back to the data you need.
So as a failsafe mechanism and the way that we use delete in production is to first find it in the database
in a real world application in a production grade application.
You first get some parameters get some data to find the entity data we're going to delete and then you're
going to delete the data with that actually find it and entity from your repository from your database.
So let's take a look at it now.
To do that I'm first going to try to find data from our repository and I'll say I want to find a product
and this product is going to be found by the type and I'll provide the type as the general so that we
can get the first product right after I find it I'll check that it is already there and it's found and
it's not.
No.
And then I'm simply going to delete it.
So I'll call the police method of Porlock repository.
So I'll say delete and as you can see it's FOID.
So we don't have any return value with our tweet Methot.
So I'll say delete and I'll use the found product from our select statement from our find buy type method.
So I'll simply say the product is deleted and to verify it deletion.
I'm going to first print out the size of our database size of ourselves in our database in here and
I'll say product count
and our database is product repository that count.
All right.
And after deletion I'm going to say again product repository count in database
is product repository count.
All right.
So let's run our application and see what's going on.
Our application is starting up now.
And as you can see before we delete the product from our database product count was 2 and that's because
we forgot to delete the delete method in here.
So it delete it the terp product from our database.
So we're left with only one product in our database.
Let's get rid of that and command it out and rerun our application to see actual result.
And as you can see now before the delete operation we have three products in our database and after
the actual delete and we have product is deleted and we have just two products in our database.
Let's just we're terrified that in H2 database I'm going to refresh the session I'm connecting again
and were selected data from our table as you can see we have just two records two roles in our database.
And let's take out the one that would delete it if it's the actual one.
So in our query we were saying we wanted to delete the general one.
So the general one was the first product and the price for that first product was zero.
As you can see we don't have any product with the price of zero and we don't have any general type product.
All right to delete operation and spring data and is as simple as that.
You either delete right away with the data that you already have or in a real world application again
you first get some data to actually find the entity from your database from your data source and then
you query that data with your data source.
Then you delete that data which simply repository up delete method that basically all we need to know
about sping data and JPA for a delete operation.